Current Problem: 

Real estate agency stores all current available inventory on a spreadsheet. In order to list an apartment the agents must read through the data on the spreadsheet and decide which property they are interested in listing. The spreadsheet is difficult to read especially on a mobile device and is also updated daily. There is no way for an agent to filter through the spreadsheet if they are looking for an apartment with certain criteria. This can be a problem when deciding which apartments you would like to advertise and it is also a problem when dealing with a client that is looking for specific features. 

Proposal: 

An application with an easy and intuitive graphical user interface could easily solve the problems stated above. The app would consist of a database to store all of the agency’s inventory, admin accounts to update inventory and agent accounts that would allow agents to easily browse through currently available property. Agents would also have the ability to store an available property in their own list where they could store their own photos of the property that they have decided to advertise. 


Specific features/website flow:

The app will have a signup/login page
You can login as an admin or an agent 
The home page will have a map of all available property and a side bar for filter options 
Each property will be represented by a small icon on the map
Each property will have an address, number of bed/baths, asking price and management company name
Each property will have the option of being added to the user/agents current list of listings.
Once a property is added to an agents list of current listings they will have the ability to add their own personal photos of that property by uploading it from their phone or using their camera directly. 

Database:

A postgreql db with several tables, one for agents, one for admins, one for properties and one for management companies. The schema design has not been drafted yet but most of the querying would take place on the properties table. 

Potential issues: 

I would really like to be able to have the option for agents to either upload photos of a property or use the camera directly through chrome on a mobile device. I have never done this before but I believe there is an html element that I can use to achieve this. The issue is that I do not know how I would test mobile functionality during development since I have just been using my local environment for other projects. In other words I don’t know how to test using my phone. 

Another issue is that I do not know how to store photos on a db. I have been using links to photos that are available online for previous projects involving photos so that is something I will have to look into. 

In sum:

The main goal of this project is to have a database of properties and a GUI that, with the help of a map api, shows those properties along with the ability to filter properties based on specific criteria. Given my current skill level I believe this goal is achievable.
